Source: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/non-text-contrast.html (W3C, Understanding SC 1.4.11 Non-text Contrast, WCAG 2.2), fetched 2026-10-09 with curl into the task folder and converted to text by html2text.mjs. Excerpts (line numbers of the text conversion):
--- lines 52-58
User Interface Components
Unless the control is inactive, any visual information provided that is necessary for a user to identify that a control is present and how to operate it must have a minimum 3:1 contrast ratio with the adjacent colors. Also, any visual information necessary to indicate state, such as whether a component is selected or focused must also ensure that the information used to identify the control in that state has a minimum 3:1 contrast ratio.
This success criterion does not require that changes in color that differentiate between states of an individual component meet the 3:1 contrast ratio when they do not appear next to each other. For example, there is not a new requirement that visited links contrast with the default color, or that mouse hover indicators contrast with the default state. However, the component must not lose contrast with the adjacent colors, and non-text indicators such as the check in a checkbox, or an arrow graphic indicating a menu is selected or open must have sufficient contrast to the adjacent colors.
Boundaries
This success criterion does not require that controls have a visual boundary indicating the hit area. If a control has visible content (such as text or a sufficiently contrasting icon), which helps users identify the presence of the control, then a border or other indication of the overall boundary of the hit area is not required, as is therefore not subject to non-text contrast requirements. Having a visual boundary indicating the hit area is only required when there is no other visual way to identify the presence of the control – and in those cases, the boundary must have sufficient non-text contrast in order to pass this success criterion.
Note
Even when a control does not need to have a visual boundary indicating its hit area, it will still need to have a sufficiently contrasting focus indication.
--- lines 91-106
Using a change of contrast for focus and other states is a technique to differentiate the states. This is the basis for G195: Using an author-supplied, visible focus indicator, and more techniques are being added.
Relationship with Focus Visible
In combination with 2.4.7 Focus Visible, the visual focus indicator for a component must have sufficient contrast against the adjacent background when the component is focused, except where the appearance of the component is determined by the user agent and not modified by the author.
Most focus indicators appear outside the component - in that case it needs to contrast with the background that the component is on. Other cases include focus indicators which are:
only inside the component and need to contrast with the adjacent color(s) within the component.
the border of the component (inside the component and adjacent to the outside) and need to contrast with both adjacent colors.
partly inside and partly outside, where either part of the focus indicator can contrast with the adjacent colors.
 Three blue buttons, the middle has a thick yellow outline well inside the border of the button.
Figure 8. 
 Pass: The internal yellow indicator (#FFFF00) contrasts with the blue button background (#4189B9).
 Three blue buttons on a white background, the middle has a light yellow outline outside of the button’s non-focused boundary.
Figure 9. 
 Fail: The external yellow indicator (#FFFF00) does not contrast with the white background (#FFF) which the component is on.
 Three blue buttons on a white background, the middle has a dark green outline outside of the button’s non-focused boundary.
Figure 10. 
 Pass: The external green indicator (#008000) does contrast with the white background (#FFF) which the component is on. It does not need to contrast with both the component background and the component, as visually the effect is that the button is noticeably larger, and it's not necessary for a user to be able to discern this extra border in isolation. Although this passes non-text contrast, it is not a good indicator unless it is very thick. New in WCAG 2.2: There is a AAA criterion in WCAG 2.2 that addresses this aspect, Focus Appearance.
--- lines 305-313
Text input focus style
 A label with a text input with a faint gray outline and a visible cursor/caret.
Figure 33. 
 Pass: A focus indicator is required. While in
 this case the additional gray (#CCC) outline has
 an insufficient contrast of 1.6:1 against the white
 (#FFF) background, the cursor/caret which is
 displayed when the input receives focus does provide
 a sufficiently strong visual indication.
--- lines 381-388
Checkbox - subtle focus style
 Unchecked checkbox with a thick gray additional outline as focus indication.
Figure 43. 
 Fail: A focus indicator is required. If the
 focus indicator is styled by the author, it must meet the 3:1
 contrast ratio with adjacent colors. In this case, the gray
 (#AAA) indicator has an insufficient ratio of
 2.3:1 with the white (#FFF) adjacent background.
